glossary.md, before:

# *block*Ring Glossary


### Definitions

#### DHT : Distributed Hash Table

#### Hashes :

    hash
    whash
    bhash
    phash
    
#### PeerId : hash of a public key

#### NID : name space identifier

#### IPFS : InterPlanetary (Immutable) File System

#### IPNS : InterPlanetary (Mutable) Name System
         creates human-readable addresses that can be updated.

         A name in IPNS is the hash of a public key. 
         It is associated with a record containing information about the hash it links to that is '''signed by the corresponding private key'''. 
         New records can be signed and published at any time.

    Example :
     /ipns/QmSrPmbaUKA3ZodhzPWZnpFgcPMFWF4QsxXbkWfEptTBJd
     
#### MFS : Mutable File System 

#### URN : Universal Resource Name
        mutable addresses produced by publish. 
        a kind of IPNS with arbitary address (no peerid)
        for a given ressource or content it creates a global resolvable permanent address.

    Example :
       urn:<name>/<mfs_path>

### functionalities :

  publish : consists in associating the copy of a hash accessible to the public under the peerid name space unique. (NID : name space identifier)

    Example :
     /.brings/shards/d21/brindex.log
     0b9e64cac2b9981c1d: /ipfs/QmR92oBwKRTR882ZPzeYdsn7YaN33PQcHHxRV3n2n5Foxo/Z_block.txt
    
  publishHistory : associates its hash to a version of a mutable file

    Example:
     /.brings/published/history.log 

     QmdHmC48ipAsKSQcaJZ4X6b48b5mxtN5NjNEVrLbTGF8Un: ["/etc/myfile.txt",1595600503]

Commit message:

edited glossary to develop nid definition, and add ipfs git repository

glossary.md, after:

# *block*Ring Glossary


### Definitions

#### DHT : Distributed Hash Table

#### Hashes :

    hash
    whash
    bhash
    phash
    
#### PeerId : hash of a node's public key

#### NID : name space identifier

  nid is a unique identifier generated by hash a permanent global address (PGA) for a given name space

  A namespace is a domain where objects' name have the limited scope to avoid conflict
  
  such that name has to be uniq within the scope defining the subspace pointed by the nid.
  this is acting as a hierarchical name (like directories in a filesystem)

  a common way to organize namespaces is to attache them to each nodes / members

  example:
   namespace for Emile A. is registered as "emilea"
    - emilea.package.module.function.variable
    - urn:emilea:/my/files/glossary.md 

   we can derive a nid for emilea space from his peerid

   ``nid = hash('urn:ipns:'+peerid)``
  
   where peerid = '[QmZYVoscbWWJJZWy7Ue19iGXC5SRh3kune3gKSYHv3kzKn][1]'


```
perl -S nid.pl urn:ipns:QmZYVoscbWWJJZWy7Ue19iGXC5SRh3kune3gKSYHv3kzKn
nid: 31t3mrt82xyqb
```
  
[1]: https://localhost:8080/ipns/QmZYVoscbWWJJZWy7Ue19iGXC5SRh3kune3gKSYHv3kzKn

#### IPFS : InterPlanetary (Immutable) File System

#### IPNS : InterPlanetary (Mutable) Name System
         creates human-readable addresses that can be updated.

         A name in IPNS is the hash of a public key. 
         It is associated with a record containing information about the hash it links to that is '''signed by the corresponding private key'''. 
         New records can be signed and published at any time.

    Example :
     /ipns/QmSrPmbaUKA3ZodhzPWZnpFgcPMFWF4QsxXbkWfEptTBJd
     
#### MFS : Mutable File System 

#### URN : Universal Resource Name
        mutable addresses produced by publish. 
        a kind of IPNS with arbitary address (no peerid)
        for a given ressource or content it creates a global resolvable permanent address.

    Example :
       urn:<name>/<mfs_path>

### functionalities :

  publish : consists in associating the copy of a hash accessible to the public under the peerid name space unique. (NID : name space identifier)

    Example :
     /.brings/shards/d21/brindex.log
     0b9e64cac2b9981c1d: /ipfs/QmR92oBwKRTR882ZPzeYdsn7YaN33PQcHHxRV3n2n5Foxo/Z_block.txt
    
  publishHistory : associates its hash to a version of a mutable file

    Example:
     /.brings/published/history.log 

     QmdHmC48ipAsKSQcaJZ4X6b48b5mxtN5NjNEVrLbTGF8Un: ["/etc/myfile.txt",1595600503]
